# Attacking the licensing problems with C++

From the early days of the commercialization of computer software, malicious
programmers, also known as crackers have been continuously nettling the
programmers of aforementioned software by constantly bypassing the clever
licensing mechanisms they have implemented in their software, thus causing
financial damages to the companies providing the software.

This trend has not changed in recent years, the more clever routines the
programmers write, the more time is spent by the crackers to invalidate the
newly created routines, and at the end the crackers always succeed. For the
companies to be able to keep up with the constant pressure provided by the
cracking community they would need to constantly change the licensing and
identification algorithms, but in practice this is not a feasible way to
deal with the problem.

An entire industry has evolved around software protection and licensing
technologies, where renowned companies offer advanced (and expensive) solutions
to tackle this problem. The protection schemes vary from using various resources
such as hardware dongles, to network activation, from long license keys to using
complex encryption of personalized data, the list is long.

This article will provide a short introduction to illustrate a very simple and
naive licensing algorithms' internal workings, we will show how to bypass it
in a real life scenario, and finally present a software based approach to
mitigate the real problem by hiding the license checking code in a layer of
obfuscated operations generated by the C++ template metaprogramming framework
which will make the life of the person wanting to crack the application a little
bit harder. Certainly, of they are well determined, this code will also be
cracked at some point, but at least we'll make it harder for them.

# A naive licensing algorithm

The naive licensing algorithm is a very simple implementation of checking the
validity of a license associated with the name of the user who bought the
associated software. It is NOT an industrial strength algorithm, it has just
demonstrative power, while trying to provide insight on the actual
responsibilities of a real licensing algorithm.

To generate a license for a registered user we simply

## The C++ Obfuscating framework

The C++ obfuscating framework provides a simple macro based mechanism for
relevant applications to replace the C++ control structures and statements with
highly obfuscated code which makes the reverse engineering of the product a
highly complex and complicated procedure.
